# Project Synopsis

Aquaculture is a growing industry, and crustacean harvest is a large portion of total production. Calcium carbonate is a popular pH/alkalinity buffer in closed aquaculture systems that also plays a significant role in overall wellbeing of calcifying organisms. The effects of calcium carbonate depletion are well documented, but the impacts of oversaturation have not been studied. Using hairy shore crabs (Hemigrapsus oregonensis), we characterized the change in gill condition in various water temperatures and calcium carbonate concentrations. We exposed 15 crabs (5 per treatment) to treatments of 13°C water with 600 ppm CaCO3, 27°C water with 600 ppm CaCO3, and 27°C water with 400 ppm CaCO3 (standard concentration in wild habitat). We had high mortality in the warm water treatments and low mortality in the cold water treatment. Upon examination under a dissecting microscope, we saw a slight buildup of particulate in the gill filaments of the supersaturated cold and warm water treatments as well as mineral deposits on the gill surfaces of the warm supersaturated treatment. The combination of heat stress and buffering salt saturation likely contributed to the higher mortality in warm water treatments. Aquaculture managers would benefit from species specific temperature and salt buffer tolerance windows to reduce errors in industrial expansion and from establishing standard maintenance procedures to reduce the likelihood of human error impacting stock health and financial returns. 
